---
outline: deep
---

# Codelex v3.0.0

Codelex v3.0.0 is [another](./v2) **boring** release that removes deprecated APIs that have been marked since v1.x and explicitly warned in v2.x.

In Codelex, new features are shipped in minor releases progressively, while the major releases is for cleaning up and removing deprecated APIs.

If you are still on v1.x, please [migrate to v2.x](./v2) first. It should provides you a smooth transition path to v3.0.0.

## Breaking Changes

- `v1.x`: Deprecated APIs are still supported, marked on type level only. With optional runtime warnings to opt-in.
- `v2.0`: No breaking changes, but enable runtime deprecated warnings by default.
- 👉 `v3.0`: Remove deprecated APIs, breaking changes.

### `getHighlighter` -> `createHighlighter`

There is no functional changes, but more like correcting the naming to avoid confusion. It should be a straightforward find-and-replace.

### WASM Related APIs

Since the introduction of the [engine system](/guide/regex-engines) in v1.16, WebAssembly-related dependencies are no longer a hard requirement. To facilitate tree-shaking and decouple the engines from the core, two packages have been extracted: `@codelexjs/engine-oniguruma` and `@codelexjs/engine-javascript`. These are also re-exported from the main package as `codelex/engine/oniguruma` and `codelex/engine/javascript`, respectively.

You might need to change your import path:

```ts
import { loadWasm } from 'codelex' // [!code --]
import { loadWasm } from 'codelex/engine/oniguruma' // [!code ++]
```

`loadWasm` field in `createHighlighterCore` is replaced with `engine` field:

```ts
import { createHighlighter } from 'codelex'
import { createOnigurumaEngine } from 'codelex/engine/oniguruma' // [!code ++]

const codelex = await createHighlighter({
  // ...
  loadWasm: () => import('codelex/wasm'), // [!code --]
  engine: createOnigurumaEngine(() => import('codelex/wasm')), // [!code ++]
})
```

Meanwhile, `@codelexjs/core` package no longer includes the engines or wasm binaries. You need to import them from the `@codelexjs/engine-oniguruma` and `@codelexjs/engine-javascript` packages.

### Codelex Compat

The `@codelexjs/compat` package that built for compatibility with v0.14 is now discontinued. Please migrate to the main package.

### Transformers Matching Algorithm

The `matchAlgorithm` option for transformers was introduced in v1.29.0, allowing users to choose the matching algorithm. The default value is change from `v1` to `v3` in v3.0.0.

[Learn more](/packages/transformers#matching-algorithm).

### Other Breaking Changes

- `createdBundledHighlighter` requires a single object-style argument
- `@codelexjs/core`
  - The regex engines `createJavaScriptRegexEngine` `createOnigurumaEngine` are no longer included, import them from `@codelexjs/engine-oniguruma` and `@codelexjs/engine-javascript` respectively
  - `@codelexjs/core/wasm-inline` is replaced with `@codelexjs/engine-oniguruma/wasm-inline`
  - Import `FontStyle` and `StackElementMetadata` from `@codelexjs/vscode-textmate` instead of `@codelexjs/core`

## Try It as a User

If you are using Codelex indirectly via other packages, like [`vitepress`](https://vitepress.dev/) or [`@nuxt/content`](https://content.nuxt.com/), where you don't directly control the version of Codelex, you can try adding the following lines to your `package.json` to force the usage of [Codelex v2.0.0](./v2) first.

```json
{
  "resolutions": {
    "codelex": "^2",
    "@codelexjs/core": "^2",
    "@codelexjs/types": "^2",
    "@codelexjs/transformers": "^2",
    "@codelexjs/markdown-it": "^2",
    "@codelexjs/rehype": "^2"
  }
}
```

Then run the tool to see if it emits any warnings. If they do, please report it to their repositories to raise awareness of the upcoming changes. And if not, the tool should work as expected with Codelex v3.0.0, where you can then further migrate to v3 as:

```json
{
  "resolutions": {
    "codelex": "^3",
    "@codelexjs/core": "^3",
    "@codelexjs/types": "^3",
    "@codelexjs/transformers": "^3",
    "@codelexjs/markdown-it": "^3",
    "@codelexjs/rehype": "^3"
  }
}
```

## Feedback

Any feedbacks are welcome! Feel free to open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/deepcode-ai/codelex) and let us know your thoughts.
